[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>ANNOUNCER: And
now, world renowned
spirit medium, James Van Praagh.
>>JAMES VAN PRAAGH: Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Thank you all very much.
Thank you at home for watching
"Spirit Talk," where I take you
one step closer to heaven.
And I've come on stage
today, and I'm holding this.
Now, what are these?
Well, I wasn't using them
per se, but in a way I was.
So these are rosary beads.
So today's show is
really about religion.
I want to talk about
religion, something
which has touched every
single person, probably,
on this earth, in
one way or another.
And around times
now we're living in,
it's touching people more
than ever in some respects.
So I borrowed these from
a guest from our audience.
And where are you?
Ah, here you are.
Thank you very, very much.
Where did you receive these?
They're beautiful.
>>AUDIENCE: We made a trip
and went to the Vatican.
So they were purchased
at the Vatican.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
I was at the Vatican once.
And do you use the rosary beads?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, very much.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And so you
were raised Catholic?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes.
I was raised Catholic as well.
And I was going to be a
priest, which a lot of people
might not know that I
was going to be a priest.
Can you see that?
Can you imagine?
[LAUGHTER]
How many other people grew up
Catholic, in that tradition?
Yeah, a lot of people.
And other religions?
Like what?
Jewish?
Are you Jewish?
Jewish people.
Yes.
Any other religions?
Eastern religions?
>>AUDIENCE: Baha'i.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Pardon?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Baha'i.
Oh, I love Baha'i.
Very interesting.
I went to Baha'i in Israel,
Baha'i, the Temple of Baha'i.
Beautiful, beautiful.
I love all religions.
And I just wanted to
share with you this hour,
to talk to you about
religion, because it's
such an important
part of our society.
And I want to hold these.
I don't want to give
them away to you.
But I will give them back
to you, I do promise.
I'll give them back to you now.
[GROANS] They feel so nice.
They feel really
warm, and I like that.
I like that.
So religion to me, people often
ask me, what is your religion?
I don't know what
to say to them.
Because from the work that
I've done in the past 30 years,
communicating with
the spirit world,
spirit will often
say to me, well,
when you think of
religion, that is really
a construct of the three
dimensional human world.
But religion, per se, doesn't
exist here where we are.
We have many, many, many,
many, many, many, many
different types of religions,
or belief systems, can I say.
Belief systems.
I think that religions-- and
I don't want to upset anybody,
but-- not that I mean
to-- but I certainly
hope it creates you to
think, maybe, differently.
But that's really
what it is about.
In that, I think most
religions are man made.
I think many, many
religions are human made.
And I think that they
stem from tradition,
so traditional types of things,
society, societies people
lived in.
I think many religions
became very political,
and that the society and
religion came together
to form-- I hate to say it--
politics, land ownership,
so forth.
A belief system brought
people together culturally.
People could relate to
each other on that level.
And I think that
all religions are
great if they do what
they're meant to do.
So I also have in
my pocket beads.
So these are from a
Buddhist tradition, beads.
So what makes my beads
different than your beads?
Nothing.
Nothing at all.
The same material-- well,
it's different material,
but the same thing.
So it's really the
thought behind the beads.
And I think beads, I love
these and prayer beads, yes.
What prayer for me does, it
just brings you into center.
It brings you into
your heart space.
I think all religions' job,
what they're meant for,
is to really bring
you back to source.
Whether it's a Jewish tradition,
whether it's a Hindu tradition,
whether it's a
Catholic tradition,
it brings you back to God.
That's really what it is.
And going back to God
is going back to source.
Going back to God is going back
to the oneness of who you are.
Like I said earlier,
I was raised Catholic
in a Catholic family, and that
was a tradition of our family
from generations,
generations, generations back.
I think that we have to be very,
very careful as human beings
that we don't own God, and that
we don't feel we can own God.
I don't think anybody owns God.
I don't think one person's God
is better than another God.
I think God is all the same.
I think you're all God.
I think you're all
God, because you all
have that beautiful light.
Every one of you.
This beautiful green
light from your heart.
That's God.
God stays in the
heart, the soul.
So any religion or
tradition or practice,
whether it's mindfulness,
whether it's meditation,
whether it's prayer-- wherever
you place a thought to bring
you back to source,
the tradition.
Even, you could
say, a crystal ball.
You could say tarot cards.
All different-- Ouija boards.
[GASP] Ouija boards, huh?
See that belief system.
Everything.
Let me tell you.
Whatever instrument you use
to bring you back to source
is all you need.
It depends on what
you're thinking,
what you have connecting the
thought of what that energy is
with that instrument.
For instance, people
talk about Ouija boards.
Oh, I know.
And I am from the
Catholic background,
where we went that is the
devil's work. [GROANS]
And I'm doing the devil's
work up here. [GROANS]
If you believed in the devil.
But any instrument that you
use, whether it's a rosary bead,
whether it's a Ouija board,
whether it's a crystal,
whether it's-- whatever
way, whether it's looking
at a wonderful painting of
Jesus, or Muhammad, or Buddha,
or whatever.
It's really the thought, if that
brings you into source of love.
If you enter with
a source of love,
you have to respect any
instrument, anything.
So, whether-- And respect
all different traditions
and religions.
I do believe that, and
as the spirit world has
said to me many,
many times, that I
wish the human race
could celebrate
the diversity of each
person's religion,
not just one religion.
But celebrate the diversity.
Because God is so
diverse in the design.
They've often showed
me a snowflake.
And they said, James,
every snowflake is unique.
Every snowflake is beautiful
in its own make up.
You put them all together,
what does it form?
A beautiful landscape.
A beautiful design.
So I think that's
something, if we could just
put that out to the-- people
that are watching this, and all
of you, whether you believe
in that, what I say or not,
that's fine.
Just let a seed sit
with you to resonate.
And we've got to be careful
that we don't mix up
traditions with religion.
Two different things, you know?
I come from New York, so
it's Italian Jewish, mostly,
people there, and
I relate to that.
But I think a lot
of it for me, also,
can incorporate the
ceremonial part of it.
I love the ceremonial
part of it.
And that could be from
past life experiences,
where I was-- I studied all
different types of religions.
Every religion has
a bit of the truth.
But not any one religion
has all the truth.
So when people often ask
me, what is your religion,
I say, my religion, if
I had to say, is love.
Love is my religion.
I don't limit God with
words or doctrine.
I don't limit God.
I will say that religion
of love, in its own way,
has certain tenets
you should abide by,
which is treat
another person as God.
You treat them as you
want to be treated.
Because you are the same.
We are one connection.
So why would you treat them
any differently than yourself?
By treating someone else bad,
you're treating yourself bad.
You're hurting yourself as well.
And that's really, really
the way it should be.
It's pure.
It's easy.
It's love.
And that's it.
Now, in saying that to you,
it's very much in your mind.
The spirit is the mind.
The mind is spirit,
spirit's mind.
So sometimes when people pass
to the world of the spirit,
when they leave
the physical body,
they will bring with
them their mindset,
their soul is part
of that mindset.
So their belief system
stays with them.
The memories they created on
the Earth stays with them.
So I have had many times where
I have brought spirit back
and they say, oh, I'm still
going to church over here.
Or I'm still going
to a mosque here.
And I've said, oh, that's
a very interesting thing.
And they say, well
that works for me here.
And that's the
level that I'm at,
and there are many, many
levels in the spirit world.
You go to level
which you believe,
which your mindset is in.
They've come back
here and said, I
didn't believe in this sort
of thing when I was alive.
Why would I do it now?
So it's very interesting
with the mind.
You have to always have an
open mind, not a closed mind.
You don't want to-- I
believe on this human earth,
our schoolroom here, that we're
here to learn and take classes.
This is a schoolroom
we came back to.
This is the Earth schoolroom.
And we're here to learn
many, many lessons.
I think if we come in
with a prefixed idea,
or closed mindedness,
that we're not
open to learning many
things from everyone else,
then we're cynical.
We're cynics.
And there's a sense
of cynicism, which
means that your mind is
closed, and you're not
open to learning anything.
And then, I think, well, what
a waste of time on this school
Earth, when you can't
open up your mind
to different ways of
looking at things.
So it's very, very interesting.
I've had that
experience with my work,
as you'd imagine, doing
this for a very long time.
When I first started
spirit communication,
it wasn't the in thing.
There was no
Theresa Caputo then.
And there really weren't
shows or anything.
I was one of the first
ones out there doing this.
And I remember very
clearly, I had many people
used to think I was crazy.
They wanted-- they'd give
me cards for some therapist,
to go see a therapist,
some asylum,
and go visit more
people like you there.
And if I wasn't open
minded, I probably
would've ended up there.
But I'm open minded, because
I'm aware of that God power.
The God power, the God energy.
I think we can learn a lot
from each other's traditions,
and I love that.
I'm very much a person who
is-- as I get more in my work,
I respect all the
traditions, and I pull out
things that make sense to
me, that I feel connected to.
And it's so funny.
I've seen hundreds and
hundreds of religions,
and they all have
the basic same thing.
It's really true.
So, just my advice.
Don't try to own God.
We can't own God; we are God.
And it's all about love.
Don't let man and
mankind, humankind,
get in the power of that.
You cannot own God.
They like the power of that.
And so, it's
unfortunate, because they
can lead people who
are weak-minded astray.
It's so much easier giving
up your responsibility
to someone else.
Whether it's a religion, a
belief system, someone else,
than to take
responsibility for self.
When you pass to
the spirit world,
they're not going to be
standing next to you.
You're going to be standing
by yourself, looking back
at the life you just lived.
How did you believe?
What did you think?
What did you do
with the time here?
Did you complete-- did you
provide compassion, hope,
generosity, honesty?
Did you help
another human being?
They don't care about religion.
What did you do inside of
your heart with another human?
We are very blessed
today, because we
have two incredible beings here.
Friends of mine.
And one is a friend who's
a traditional shaman,
and shaman using
the four elements.
And I'm going to
bring her, she's
going to do a little
ceremony for us.
And the other incredible
being is her baby, and kind
of my baby, kind
of adopted baby,
who I always have the
pleasure of taking care of,
and I renamed the baby, and it's
a-- because that's what I do.
And we connected.
And my friend Karen,
she's a shaman,
and she has a beautiful
dog named Amber.
And Amber's a service dog.
And Amber is a dog
who, again, don't
get me started with
animals, because I could
do a whole show on the animals.
We will, but animals are
wonderful examples or samples
of unconditional love.
So this is Karen.
Would you?
Her name is Karen.
Karen Ahwat.
Hi, Karen.
>>KAREN: Hi, James.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And where's Amber?
She's back there somewhere.
>>KAREN: This is Amber--
you taking a nap?
You want to go see James?
Let's go see James.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Hi, sweetheart.
Just let me pet you and say hi.
There we go.
>>KAREN: Up you go.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Hi, sweetheart.
Want to give me your paw?
Want to sit?
Give me your paw?
Give me your paw.
>>KAREN: Double shake.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Double shake.
Oh, all right.
>>KAREN: Oh, a single shake.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Thank you.
Amber is great, because
Amber had cancer,
and Amber's healed
herself from cancer.
And also Karen assisted
with her shamanic work.
So Karen, come on up.
>>KAREN: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Have
a seat, darling.
>>KAREN: Appreciate it.
Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Have a seat.
And I just wanted to
talk to you a little bit,
because a lot of
people might not
know about shamanism
and that tradition.
And I thought it would be
a great experience for you
to share what you know,
and your knowledge,
and this native tradition.
>>KAREN: Thank you.
So shamanism exists in North
America, South America,
Mongolia-- it's
all over the world.
Shamanism is about
getting right with you.
And there's a number
of key principles.
One of is-- one of
them is that you
work at all four levels:
your spiritual level,
your mental level,
your emotional level,
and your physical level.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Hold
on one second.
It's a lot, right?
So, you talk about
integrating all four?
>>KAREN: It's about integrating
and balancing those, and coming
into right relationship
with those.
Shamanism is very
experiential, so it
means feeling your feelings,
not dismissing them.
It means knowing
your mental stories.
It means listening to your
body and what it's telling you.
Because your spirit will talk
to you through your body.
It's about using the elements
and the energies of nature,
and the principles of nature.
So make--
>>VAN PRAAGH: To bring
back a healing or balance
in each part of those bodies.
>>KAREN: Correct.
So oftentimes, we're out
of sync with ourselves
because those bodies
are out of sync,
because we're not listening when
our spirit is talking to us.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Or
they're imbalanced.
Like a lot of people
emotionally get imbalanced,
when someone does you you wrong,
or you lost a relationship,
or you have a loved
one that's passed over.
Many times that just
really hurts them,
and they can be imbalanced
emotionally, correct?
>>KAREN: Right.
And then you start to
feel it physically.
You get upset about something.
You start getting very
depressed and very discouraged.
So all of those bodies
are very connected.
And when you look
to nature, nature's
in right relationship
with itself.
It's always in balance,
unless, of course,
man intervenes and messes it up.
>>VAN PRAAGH: The human
always gets in the way.
Always gets in the
way, that human.
Oh, my goodness.
>>KAREN: But in and of itself,
it is in right relationship.
So shamanism is about working
with your mental bodies,
your emotional body,
your physical body.
And when you can,
go back to nature.
Go for a walk around a lake.
Go sit with a tree,
a tree's roots.
Have you ever seen a tree
that's leaning over to the side,
and big tree branches
stretching out?
Oh, those roots are tight.
They're strong.
That tree knows who it
is, and it takes a lot.
We have 100-year-old trees that
take huge winds to knock down,
because they're so well rooted.
That's our job as humans,
is to get our rooting.
To come back to our
center, our core.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So true.
I teach that in all
my classes, too.
Because I find
that people who do
spiritual work, not
everyone, of course,
but a lot of my students,
I find that many times
they think that they
have to be in the head.
They've got to be here all the
time, they've got to be here.
This is where the power--
when the powers is really
with the Earth mother,
and in the heart
and integration of all that.
So it's saying the
same thing we think--
a lot of religious
belief systems
say the same thing
with different words,
different phrases.
>>KAREN: Right.
And shamanism is completely
compatible with any religion.
>>VAN PRAAGH: It's
an enhancement.
And let's say somebody is
imbalanced or not equalizing
emotionally, what
kind of cerem--
do you do a ceremony for
that sort of a thing?
What would you do?
>>KAREN: I would first--
I would tell them--
>>VAN PRAAGH: You would do an
assessment first, probably.
>>KAREN: --two things.
I would do an
assessment with them,
and I would bring
to consciousness.
That's the first
step, is awareness.
And then it becomes choice.
Do I choose to bring in more
balance and more harmony?
>>VAN PRAAGH: So
let's say someone,
emotionally, they
lost their husband,
and they really
can't get over that.
And you meet them,
and you feel, or you
intuit that they're not healing
because of this loss, which
is normal, we just, we
have to live with that.
Of course we can
never get over it.
But how would you work
with that emotional thing?
>>KAREN: I would sit
with them, and have
them sit in their sadness.
I would really take
them into their sadness.
Because you must
feel your feelings.
That's where the power is.
The power's not in our minds.
As a cerebral society, we
think the power is up here.
No, the power's in your heart.
So I would sit with that
person, I would say let's cry.
And I would sit with them.
And if we sat for an hour,
and they cried, fabulous.
If they came back the next
time-- be with your feelings.
Feel them.
Allow it to flow like a river.
A river that gets
dammed up becomes
stagnant and murky and
dirty and unhealthy.
But a river that flows.
So if you're
feeling sad, be sad.
Cry.
And if people tell you,
oh, don't be-- no, no, no.
You be sad.
You be in that sadness.
And you feel it for as
long as you need to.
>>VAN PRAAGH: It's really
interesting, you saying this.
Because as all of
you know, things
happen we call
coincidence, right?
Where we hear something
the same time three times,
the weirdest thing,
the most obscure thing
you could hear three times in
one day, or through the week.
Something very
interesting just happened.
It happens all the
time with my groups,
my audiences, my groups.
Where a message comes
through, and they're
crying their eyes out.
Crying their eyes out.
Which, of course, I think
tears cleanse the soul.
>>KAREN: Very much.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
a friend of mine
was in the audience helping
around with a microphone,
and this was a-- I
think it was in Europe.
I don't know where it was.
And the people are
crying and crying.
And I'm, like, mouthing get
a Kleenex to that person.
And she's looking at me, and
she's very slowly walking.
I'm like, OK, why is
she slowly walking?
What is going on here?
And she told me later on, she
said-- I said, why didn't you,
Peggy, go to that
person right away?
She goes, oh, no.
I had to let them process that.
And if I broke that
process with the Kleenex,
it would have broken
the whole process.
So that's really interesting.
It's the same thing, kind of.
>>KAREN: Right.
And be with your emotions.
If you're angry about
something, don't take it out
on someone else,
because it's about being
in right relationship with you.
It's not about anybody else.
It's not about the circumstances
or the other person.
What are you angry
about with yourself?
Get clear with yourself.
And so--
>>VAN PRAAGH: You're taking
responsibility for yourself.
>>KAREN: Right.
And that's where you
get your power back.
And that's where you want--
>>VAN PRAAGH: Can
I-- I just want
to jump something in
with you if I could.
Just dovetailing here.
When I read people
energetically, same thing.
If someone has bad
thoughts, they're sort of
holding on to something,
in the auric field
you'll see a dirtiness there.
You'll see a weakness there.
You'll see that it's not very
strong, that seal around them.
And if that stays
like that, it'll
end up manifesting
somewhere in the physical.
So it first starts with
thought, the mental,
and eventually ends up physical.
>>KAREN: Right.
And the physical is
the most dense level.
It's the literal level.
It's the last level to change.
So it goes spiritual,
or energetic
is the lightest, that's the--
if you will, your blueprint.
The next lightest
level is mental,
your thoughts, your
stories you create.
The next level below that, which
is heavier, are the emotions.
We all know how we feel.
If you get sad, or you're
upset, or you're frustrated,
it's intense.
And then the final level
is the physical level.
And it will manifest.
So you can see, if you can
see them as flowing together,
you can seek
relationship, and you
can start to work with
your own life and say, OK.
How do I put myself
back into balance?
And, as I say, the first step
is always go into nature.
Because nature itself
holds a high vibration.
And just being in
a higher vibration
will help lift you up
and bring you clarity.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
when-- so everyone here
in the audience, and people that
are watching this-- when you
feel you want to connect
back with yourself,
just go into nature.
Is there something they can
do once they get into nature?
Sit under a tree,
what do they do then?
>>KAREN: Absolutely.
So wherever you are
in your context.
A tree, a river, engage into,
if you will, a silent space.
A meditative space.
Or if you need to move,
sometimes walking around.
But let your mind go still.
I meet so many people
who I work with, oh, I
walk around the river.
And I say, well,
what are you thinking
about when you walk
around the river?
Oh, I'm working about
my work project,
and I'm working about this.
No.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Right?
Hello.
Mm-mm.
>>KAREN: You're spinning.
So when you go into nature, you
want to be as calm as you can,
as quiet.
Take the iPod ear pods out.
And see if you can tune into
the vibration of the tree.
Sit with the tree.
Stand with the tree.
Put your hand on it.
Look at the river, notice--
or the ocean, if you can.
Notice the ebb and the flow.
Notice the movement.
Notice a running river.
>>VAN PRAAGH: We're all
connected to it anyway.
We're a part of that, aren't we?
>>KAREN: That is who we are.
And that holds a
higher vibration.
And if you can't get
out to nature, depending
upon where you're living
and the time of year,
get on the internet.
Look at a picture.
Bring that up on your
screen and sit with it.
Close your eyes and
be the still pond.
Because, you see, if
you're a turbulent ocean,
and spirit drops
a pebble in, you
can't tell what's happening.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That's true.
>>KAREN: But if you're still
pond and spirit drops that
pebble, you go, oh, that's
the clarity I was looking for.
Oh, that's the
direction I want to go.
But we're turbulent.
We're a turbulent ocean.
So go as still as
you can with nature,
and be present in the
present energy of nature.
>>VAN PRAAGH: It's great advice.
I just wanted one more
thing to add to that.
When I've done that, and we
walk-- take the dogs for walks.
That's what we do.
We take dogs for walks.
And that's-- when
I go in nature,
I become much more aware of
doing this after a mindfulness
class.
That every step that I
take, the bottom of my feet,
I connected with the ground.
That there's an intention
there, and I'm just connecting.
And after a while, you
do that for a little bit,
you'll get used to it.
>>KAREN: Right.
And you can build on that.
And as a tree takes in
nutrients and releases waste,
as you walk with each step, I'm
taking in the nutrients I need.
I have all the answers
I'm looking for.
And I'm releasing those
stories and the pain
and the suffering that
no longer serves me.
Like a tree will root, root
yourself with each step
as you're walking.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That's
great, that's great.
How many years have
you been doing this?
>>KAREN: About 10 years.
>>VAN PRAAGH: 10 years.
Do you have any questions
for Karen and shamanism,
and her work, at all,
any procedures, anybody?
You have a question?
Oh, would you mind standing?
OK.
What's your name?
>>AUDIENCE: Lisa Marshall.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Hi Lisa.
What's your question?
>>AUDIENCE: I was
just curious what
your training and your
background in shamanism is.
>>KAREN: So I've
studied with the Incas,
the Inca descendants.
So I went down to Peru and
worked with the shamans there
extensively.
And I've continued to
study here while I can.
And then I also like to learn
about the Mongolian shamanism.
I haven't been over
that area, but I
like to bring in-- as James
was talking about in religion,
it's really all the same.
It's looking at it through
different glasses, if you will.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I thought it would
be really, really great if we
would have Karen open
up the space for us,
open up this wonderful
healing space,
and create a doorway for
the spirit world to come in.
And to work with them and invite
them in, in her own tradition.
Wouldn't that be fun?
So we'll let Karen
explain how to do that,
and after she's done,
then we'll begin.
>>KAREN: So what
I'm going to do is
I'm going to walk through
what's called the medicine
wheel, which means I'm going
to address each of the four
directions, as well
as above and below.
And that's one of the
primary tenets of shamanism.
Ahem.
Excuse me.
And each direction
holds medicine
and guidance and wisdom.
So I'm going to
invoke and invite
those spirits and those
energies to come in and be
with us today.
And also to be with all of you,
for whatever you're seeking
and you're looking
for in your lives.
So that as you go and
you leave the studio
and you go on about your
day, and on about your life
in the next coming weeks,
that you have the opportunity
to work with them
if you so desire.
The medicine wheel is about
journeying with the self
through the different
layers of the self.
And as you'll hear as
I invoke the spirits,
it's a neverending spiral
of growth and awareness.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
what can they do
while you're doing the ceremony?
What can they do in their part?
Can they just be open
and sending love?
Would that be opening
up the space with love?
>>KAREN: I would say
be open your hearts.
And open your hearts
to your guides,
to your spirit partners.
Particularly those nature
spirits who are with you.
As James has
mentioned many times,
everyone has spirit partners.
Everyone has someone,
has many spirits,
guiding them and holding
them in their grace.
You have spirits who are with
you who are nature spirits, who
are animal spirits, in
all different forms.
So I would say open your heart
and say, yes, I receive you in.
And if you're not ready to open
your heart, that's fine too.
Be with that and
say, I would like
to learn and listen
and understand
how this different
tradition works.
So come from the place
that you're comfortable,
and if you can, a
really open heart.
And it will stay with you in
the days and weeks to come.
OK?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Take your time.
>>KAREN: Yes, I will.
I will be addressing each
of the four directions.
So you are welcome to,
if you will, kind of look
towards the direction
that I'm looking,
to help invite those spirits in.
So I'll go through south,
west, north, and east,
and then I'll look
above and below.
OK?
[EXHALING] [SHAKING RATTLE]
To the spirits of the
south, great mother
serpent, you who come to us from
the galaxies, from the waters,
from the rivers.
Wrap your beautiful
coils of light around us.
Teach us to release the energies
that no longer serve us,
just as you release your
skin, whole and effortlessly.
Teach us to walk the
beauty way on this earth,
so that all we touch,
we create in beauty.
Ho!
[SHAKING RATTLE] [EXHALING]
To the winds of the west,
mother sister jaguar, come
walk into our medicine space.
Hold us in your grace.
Devour those energies
that no longer serve us.
Take us into the
valley of death.
Let us die those stories that
cause us pain and suffering.
Teach us to walk beyond our
fear, our shame, our guilt.
Hold us in your grace.
Teach us to release
our internal struggles,
that we may learn
to support ourselves
and receive the light and the
grace that is with us always.
Guide us through the
darkness, that we
may know the love of the
light and the love of honoring
ourselves.
Ho!
[SHAKING RATTLE]
To the winds of the north,
grandmothers, grandfathers,
ancient ones, you who come
to us with ancient wisdom,
whisper to us in the wind.
Let us know your wisdom.
Light our path up.
Great beautiful hummingbird,
come dance in our lives.
Teach us to drink of
the nectar of life,
especially when the
contrast is great
and the journey is
long or difficult.
Teach us that we may create,
enjoy, and in timelessness,
and dance this dance.
Ho!
[SHAKING RATTLE]
To the winds of the east,
beautiful great condor,
eagle, come to the-- come to
us from the place of the rising
sun.
Fly into our worlds.
Lift us up and take
us under your wing,
that we may fly wing to
wing with great spirit.
That we may have the broadest
vision and the greatest
clarity.
Take us to the highest
mountain, that we
may dare to dream the dreams
that our soul chooses for us.
Lift us up, that we may
create from a place of beauty
and grace, and know
our way always.
Ho!
[SHAKING RATTLE]
Sweet mother Earth, blessed
mother, santa tierra madre.
We come to you honoring
all of our relations.
The two legged, the four legged,
the creepy crawlers, the fin,
the furred, the plant
people, the stone people.
Thank you for sustaining
us with your bounty,
always providing for us,
supporting us on your belly.
Thank you for taking
our heavy medicine.
all that troubles us
and mulching it and giving
it back to us as life.
Thank you for
sustaining us and always
being the mother coming
from love and grace.
Ho!
[SHAKING RATTLE]
Father sky, grandmother
moon, great star nation,
thank you for always shining
your light on us every day.
For teaching us cycles and
rhythms and timings and season.
Great mountains,
you who have stood
for-- since ancient times,
teach us your wisdom.
And oh, great
dpirit, God, you who
are known by a thousand
names, and yet you
who are still unnameable,
thank you for giving us life,
for bringing us together
that we may sing our song
and dance our
dance one more day.
Thank you for holding us in
your grace and lighting our way.
Ho!
[SHAKING RATTLE]
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank you, Karen.
>>KAREN: Thank you, James.
Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Give Karen.
I wanted to cry.
I don't know how you felt.
Did you feel emotional?
No?
Are you living or dead?
Did you feel a sense
of emotion there?
No?
You're all, like,
out of it already.
That was very
powerful, very strong.
Thank you.
Wow.
So as that was happening, I
was blending, too, with them.
And I just want to continue now
with the spirit communication.
Yes?
So I'm going to start now.
Thank you for
opening the portal.
I have a young man
here who passed over,
and I feel like his picture's
in somebody's wallet.
I'm not sure if it's a
parent that's sitting here,
but I feel like a boy
would have passed over,
and you'd be sitting with-- oh,
you have his picture with you.
Am I over here?
Is it you?
>>AUDIENCE: My brother
just passed away.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Your
brother passed.
OK.
We-- and what is your name?
>>AUDIENCE: Lucia.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Lucia.
Would you mind if
I-- I think I'm here,
but I'm not 100% sure.
So let me stay with that.
But I know that there'd be--
is there somebody else in here
who'd have a photograph of
a young man in their wallet.
Would it be a son, or be
a grandson, or nephew.
You do.
Brother.
OK.
I want to go-- see,
I'm not sure yet.
So let me just see.
I also want to talk about,
died of his own cause,
or his own-- right here.
OK.
Died of his own way.
Suicide of some
kind or of a drug--
I'm not sure if it was a
drug overdose or something,
but there's something like that.
That's him.
I think I'm here.
Thank you.
I think I'm with you then.
Maybe just-- would
you mind standing.
>>AUDIENCE: Sure.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Now, and
your name, again, is--
>>AUDIENCE: Lucia.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Lucia.
Lucia, thank you for being
here, because your brother--
it would be your
brother then, yes?
I'm just so interested, because
I feel I'm with your daddy
here, as well.
So I feel like your
father-- you're
father's still living here
on the Earth, is that right?
>>AUDIENCE: Correct.
>>VAN PRAAGH: But I just feel
like I'm here for your father
as well.
So your brother comes in
for your father as well.
So I need you to be the
medium for your father.
And please tell him,
Dad, I didn't mean this.
Please tell Dad not
to take it personally.
I get very emotional here.
And please tell Dad that
he's been praying the rosary.
You had a rosary before.
He's been praying with a rosary.
You understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
He very much connected.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Very Catholic.
And I know it's so
interesting, because I
borrowed a rosary before.
Now I know why.
And I know that he's
praying to his son.
I know Christopher,
Saint Christopher,
is very significant.
Yes?
>>AUDIENCE: Christopher.
Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Is that his name?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank you.
Because I know when he
shows me Saint Christopher,
that's very significant.
I know he has that.
And he said, Dad has also been
praying to Saint Christopher.
So would you please ask your
Dad-- if you don't know this,
that there's either
a statue there--
and notice how I'm getting
here, very emotional.
Remember before I just started,
I said I'm very emotional.
They're lining up, OK?
So would you let him know,
he didn't mean to do this.
But I know that your brother
has had many incarnations,
and I know there's always
been a situation, a lesson
for his soul, about learning
about loving himself.
And not feeling self-worth.
>>AUDIENCE: Right.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I'm
very aware of that.
I'm very aware that your
mother is very upset as well.
Yes.
I'm very aware that she's--
is she not here today?
>>AUDIENCE: It's-- he
has a different mother,
but she is very upset.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She's very upset.
You speak with her,
too, don't you though?
>>AUDIENCE: I do.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah.
I want to thank you
for writing a letter.
I want to thank you for
writing something to me.
Do you understand that?
So you must have written
something for Christopher,
to him.
OK?
And I want to say about a
funeral or a ceremony there.
I think there must have been
his coffin or something there.
Understand that.
Because I walk into this place,
and they have a coffin here.
I felt like a wake type
of thing, I should say.
And I feel it's very--
there are flowers, like,
and I'm seeing red, blue, white,
different colored carnations.
Carnations.
A lot of carnations.
Not necessarily
roses, carnations.
>>AUDIENCE: Both.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Both.
But the carnations are big.
So carnations from the family.
OK?
I know there's some kind
of medals pinned on here.
Pinned on here.
I know I have a
cross, big cross,
at the end of the coffin.
I see two candles there as well.
I see letters are all
through the coffin.
So people must have put
some letters inside there.
Would you know if there was a--
he's talking about being goofy.
So I'm like goofy.
He's like this, and he
has an oversized shirt on.
It's not like hip hopper, but
it's a big, oversized shirt
type of thing.
And it has some
strange saying on it.
>>AUDIENCE: He's like
a skater kind of--
>>VAN PRAAGH: A skater dude.
>>AUDIENCE: Uh-huh.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah.
The hat-- skater dude-- the hat
to the side, big old t-shirt,
like that.
I know that he had a ring.
I know he had several rings.
I know his mom has a ring.
I know Dad wanted to
keep a belt of his,
so he has a belt of his.
I know that he had shoes
that did not fit him.
This is very interesting.
Because there are shoes still
that exist, he said to me,
and they're one size, one
and a half size too big.
>>AUDIENCE: He always
put a roll of socks
stuffed inside the toe.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Wow.
[LAUGHTER]
So that's very good
evidence, you see.
Very good evidence.
He said to me, I
know he experiments
with different types of
drugs and this sort of thing.
You know that.
And I feel for him,
because I don't
feel he loves
himself, really has
that relationship with himself.
And he's always
trying to get away
from having to think who he is.
And I know the drugs
and the alcohol-- first
he tells to me he had an
alcohol problem earlier,
before the drugs.
You understand that.
>>AUDIENCE: Correct.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I know
there's music here as well.
So I don't know if he wanted
to talk to someone in music,
if his friend's in
music, with the MC thing.
But I've got to say
that it might be a DJ.
Thank you.
He said, he's a
friend who's a DJ.
You're aware of that.
>>AUDIENCE: He has a
friend that's a DJ.
Mm-hm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Right.
And so I want you to know
about the MC connection there.
It's in quote, quote, MC, OK?
I want to thank you
for talking to me.
And I know that there
must be four people.
There must be four.
He must be one of four,
or there's four siblings.
Four.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: He's one of four,
or there are four siblings?
>>AUDIENCE: There's
four siblings.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Four siblings.
There we go.
So he's one, there are four.
That's what he's saying to me.
So would you tell
the four siblings
that this will not
happen to them.
I know someone just went
to get a tattoo of him.
You understand about that?
>>AUDIENCE: My cousin wanted
to get a tattoo of him.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Just recently.
>>AUDIENCE: Very.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
understand that, great.
I know that he's very,
very kind with birds
and dogs and animals
of all kinds.
>>AUDIENCE: All animals.
>>VAN PRAAGH: All
animals of all kinds.
I know when he was
younger, he tells me,
seven years of age,
eight years of age,
his teeth were not straightened.
And he didn't like his
teeth weren't straight.
And so I don't know if
he wanted to get braces,
I had to get braces, but
something's uneven here.
Do you remember that?
>>AUDIENCE: He has bad teeth.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Bad teeth, right.
But I know that seven
years, eight years of age,
he's talking to me about this
is-- he doesn't like that.
That starts him on
his bad self-image.
See?
There's always a reason, you
connect with the dots there.
So I have to go with that.
And I want to say, please
give love to his father.
It's very important that we had
Karen here talking about this
before, because things
are always connected.
His father's suffering.
He doesn't want his
father suffering.
The father's getting
to a point right
now-- did his father-- does
his father smoke cigarettes?
>>AUDIENCE: Marijuana.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Joints,
pot, something.
I keep on seeing this.
>>AUDIENCE: That's--
that was my brother,
that's-- he was always smoking.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Smoked pot, yeah.
>>AUDIENCE: And my
father said that he's
been smelling it
around the house.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Ah!
Oh.
Interesting.
It's the funny cigarettes.
OK.
Which, here where we're
shooting the show, it's legal,
it's fine.
It's fine with me.
So that's him.
That's him.
But I want your dad to get
the messages and move on here.
The message is for him to
please-- he needs-- hold on.
I don't like giving these
messages, but I have to.
It's the hard part
of doing my job.
But I'm going to give it to
you as he gives it to me.
He said, tell Dad to honor
himself like I didn't.
Dad's committing slow suicide.
And I don't want him to.
With-- how he's
tearing himself down.
And to honor his
life, please tell Dad,
please, please have
him honor his life.
I love him.
Please Dad-- tell him
not to do the same thing.
I know there was a gun.
I'm very aware of that.
But there was a gun
that Dad was looking
at, that's got-- thought
about a suicide, himself.
You're aware of
that, aren't you?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah, yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, honey.
The angels are around
with him, really trying.
And the message today,
please be the medium,
is to save your dad's life.
Yeah?
And to please help Dad.
His boy doesn't want
him to-- his boy
doesn't want him
to take his life.
Let his be that-- Dad has
a lot more opportunities.
There's a new baby
coming in the family,
and Dad needs to be
there for the new baby.
And I know that you've
brought-- they're
talking about tattoos--
him, him having tattoos.
You can understand having
one, or had one, or just
got one, or something
about a tattoo.
>>AUDIENCE: My father
has full sleeves.
>>VAN PRAAGH: If
Dad-- oh, Dad does.
I'm-- look at me.
OK.
I know then, thank you very
much for clarifying that.
I was not right.
Because he kept on saying,
tattoos, tattoos, tattoos.
I know that he would
either want-- right.
My face on his tattoo.
Your dad has though
about creating
the face of his son on his
arm or a place in the body.
That make sense?
>>AUDIENCE: He has.
Uh-huh.
>>VAN PRAAGH: He has.
He's done that.
>>AUDIENCE: He's
thought about it.
>>VAN PRAAGH: He's
Would you let him
know, that he knows
that he's thinking about that.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Would you let
him know that he's around him
when he's depressed.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Would
you let him know
that he's in the
bedroom with him.
And he sits there in the
bed, looking at the photos.
Would you let him know that
I'm standing right next to him,
and I know that he has my phone.
He has my phone, he
has a phone, he's
looking at something
that belonged to his son.
So I'm looking at this,
something with his pictures
there.
Not only you, but him.
And he said, I'm standing right
next to Dad, I'm kissing him.
Please.
All right.
I'll leave with that.
OK?
Blessings.
Thank you.
I want to come over
here, because I
have a lady standing right here.
And I want to talk about
you losing your mom.
Is that right?
>AUDIENCE: Me?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes.
>>AUDIENCE: No.
>>VAN PRAAGH: There's a
lady standing right here.
So I don't know who she is.
I'm not sure if it's you.
You lost your mom?
Is that Mom?
Right here.
I have to-- sorry,
I was with you.
You don't know
each other, do you?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, we are friends.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh,
you're a friend.
Did you know her mother at all?
>>AUDIENCE: No.
>>VAN PRAAGH: No.
Too bad.
She's a character.
She's really funny,
she's a character,
and that's really, really great.
May I come to you please?
And if you already
asked a question, great,
which opened the space.
So we're going to come
to you, if you could.
And if you don't mind,
would you mind just
standing again, please?
And also I need your name again.
>>AUDIENCE: Lisa Marshall.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Lisa Marshall.
Thank you, Lisa Marshall.
And Lisa Marshall, as I
come to you, Lisa Marshall,
I love to come into
your space, because I
do share this space
with your mother,
and I knew she was right
there, and you brought her in.
You brought her in.
And you asked for her in
the hallway, she said.
>>AUDIENCE: That's actually
my grandmother, I think.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh, the
grandmother is here.
>>AUDIENCE: But she raised me.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh,
she raised you.
This is your mother's mother?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
mother's also passed over,
but then her mother.
OK.
And whose dishes do you have?
>>AUDIENCE: My grandmother's.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
So she's here with her.
OK.
Can you speak-- OK,
she'll speak to you too.
Let me get Grandma
more through for you.
I understand about
the piano, yeah.
The piano.
You remember about the piano.
So as we come through the
memory, she's talking about,
you remember having memories
about a piano in the family.
Or a piano at my place.
Do you remember that?
>>AUDIENCE: My mother
played the piano.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Your mother did.
Your mother played the piano.
But you know about
that piano memory.
Mom'd sit there
sometimes and play it.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh good.
Great, great.
OK.
So I know that I
wanted to do that-- I
want to do that on
Saturday night, sometimes.
I do want to do that.
And I want to see--
I'm sitting there,
and as I'm seeing
this scene play out,
I'm very aware that
I'm looking up at her.
So this was either
sitting down on the floor
looking up at her, from
the carpet, looking up.
You understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
do you remember
when she-- do you
have a sister as well?
>>AUDIENCE: My mother was
much more like my sister.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Your
mother was like a sister.
I'm seeing doing hair in
the sink, or in the bathtub.
And it's like a
ritual type of thing.
Every week we've got
the bath and the hair.
Remember that?
>>AUDIENCE: That's the mother.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That's the mother.
Right.
Well, you figure it
out, because all I know
is washing the
hair every week, I
feel like a ritual
type of thing.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And if you'd
have that memory for me,
because she goes to
that memory, please.
And who was the man that
was in the military, please?
>>AUDIENCE: My stepfather, Tony.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And he raised--
helped raise you at one point?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And did you not
connect with him sometimes?
>>AUDIENCE: Mm-hm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You couldn't
connect with him, sometimes.
Right?
>>AUDIENCE: Well, when I
was younger, we had trouble.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I know that.
And I know that March,
the month of March,
is significant for something.
So I know someone's
birthday is in March.
>>AUDIENCE: My brother,
who committed suicide.
He was-- you know.
That's why I didn't know.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So that's what
you were thinking of, too.
So isn't it interesting,
we had a suicide here,
another one right here.
Right.
Now this is very
interesting, in that we never
know what the heck's
going to happen.
And this is really interesting,
because many times one spirit
will come through with a
condition, like a suicide,
many others will
come in the same way.
I found, also,
that organizations
on the other side,
suicide organizations,
or different ways
of passing, they
come to groups like this,
demonstrations, to work.
So that's very interesting.
Because they almost come through
that whole energetic doorway,
if you will.
So you're helping
each other out.
Can I just say that.
Can I go to your
brother, if I might?
Yeah.
And would anyone know Joseph?
Between the two of you, who
would know Joseph or a Joe?
Or would your
brother know a Joe?
>>AUDIENCE: I just want to
say, I have a suicide as well.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And you
have a suicide as well.
My God.
>>AUDIENCE: And my bro-- and
his brother is named Joe.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Joe.
OK.
So we have a whole
row of suicides.
Now, look at this going on here.
This is why this show is so
interesting, because you never
know what's going to happen.
So some of the things
that related to both,
you hear about.
Interesting.
And you have someone else
that left their life.
>>AUDIENCE: My husband.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Your husband.
Completed suicide?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Wow.
So let's-- and you also.
Are you related?
So we have one,
two, three, four.
Right here.
Oh, isn't that interesting.
Can I just say that
your coming here
with your brother, who is
helping all of these people
right here, now.
So this is the
mission, right now.
OK?
So, so I have-- you also.
So your husband was--
completed suicide.
And who was it for you?
>>AUDIENCE: My father.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Your father.
OK.
Wow.
So let me just throw out
everything here, if I can.
I just want to stay with
you, with your mother,
for just a second here.
I want to talk
about happier times.
I want all of you to
think of happy times.
I don't want you to think of
them as completed suicide.
That's just how
they left the body.
They're OK now.
Wasn't your fault.
If I go to you
grandmother's house, when
you were a young
girl, I know she
took care of a lot of people.
I mean, took care of the
family, but not just you.
There were others there as well.
I don't know why she keeps
on showing me lemonade,
and making lemonade, but
I want to go to that time.
Around eight years of
age, seven years of age.
And I know that I'm
either sitting on a porch,
or I'm outside of the house.
And I would have
that in my mind.
>>AUDIENCE: It was in the back.
>>VAN PRAAGH: It
was the back porch,
back deck, something like that.
OK.
Does that makes sense?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
I just want her
to-- bring that ray of
sunshine to you, she said.
And you're very gifted
with your hands,
but you've forgotten your gifts.
You're artistic.
You're a very artistic
type of person.
You have creativity
in your hands.
You understand
what she's saying.
And you've forgotten
this, or you
haven't used this
in a long time.
Do you understand that.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank you.
Because I know that you've
been given this gift,
and I really would
love to use it.
Don't-- don't--
I want to use it.
So I know that having
this-- Karen here today,
with the shaman, it's
very interesting,
because you have to
fully integrate and feel
worthy of coming back to
yourself and using your gifts.
And you're a healer as well,
but you don't use it enough.
And part of it's not
believing in yourself more.
I'd say, the people that you're
around, yes, we can do it,
but I want to do more of it.
I want to put you here.
Stop being here.
You understand?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
I do.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Right?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And music's
very good with you.
You can use music to bring
you to a higher levels.
And it's almost like, I don't
believe I'm worthy of it,
or I shouldn't do it,
or give more time to it
than I'm giving.
OK?
Who had the cancer?
Lady with the cancer.
>>AUDIENCE: My grandmother
died of cancer.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
OK.
Because I'm just getting
that very, very strong here.
And when you think of
her, these memories
you have, just to clear
away those old memories,
because she's not like that.
She was in pain,
but she's not one
to talk about pain too much.
She was very much into her own--
you know, I have pain, maybe,
but guess what?
That's not who I am.
That's not how I
identify myself.
I know you have candlesticks.
I know you have dishware.
I know you have my
paintings, as well.
She's telling me all that.
You understand that.
I'd just like to
say you honor it.
I know that you
either did one room,
you made up a room where you
sit, where you have room,
where you can do meditation,
or this sort of thing.
Correct?
>>AUDIENCE: Mm-hm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And if I go to that
room, I know that I even
have something hanging on
the wall with words on it.
You understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah.
So Grandmother sits there,
your mother sits there,
and I want to say that you
need to look at the words
and live it.
Don't just hang the words.
OK?
I'll leave you with that.
Thank you.
So I would like to see
if I can connect here
with you, with the
gentleman that passed over.
First of all, what
is your name, please?
>>AUDIENCE: Meredith.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Meredith,
would you mind standing?
Is that OK?
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And Meredith, I
just want to talk
about the man that passed away.
That was your husband,
or was that your father?
>>AUDIENCE: My father.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Great.
And I want to ask
about-- do you recently
have old pictures
you were looking at?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And you place
them out either on a table--
And I'm looking at all
these old pictures.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I know
that he was with you,
looking at these pictures.
And I know there's a
mother there as well.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
understand that?
Because I have
Mother's picture there,
my father's picture there, or
the family's picture there.
And it's as if you
are having a family
reunion with all
these photographs.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I
know that someone
had trouble with their feet.
Feet.
>>AUDIENCE: Me.
Right now.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You have
trouble with feet.
OK.
And have you thought about
going to a podiatrist,
or just come from a podiatrist?
Or going to a specialist
for your feet?
>>AUDIENCE: I've
thought about it.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And are
you getting orthotics?
>>AUDIENCE: I have them.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Mm-hm.
You need to change them.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
[LAUGHS]
>>VAN PRAAGH: You need
to change your orthotics.
So your mother's on the
other side with your father.
And I don't know why I get a
lady here, very interesting.
Your father is-- I gotta
say, up here I'm not--
I go up and down.
So I get bouts of
depression, then I'm happy.
I go up and down.
I'm going to tell you
that as raised as a child,
I don't feel my worth
there in that family.
You know this.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
So it's nothing to do with you.
It's to do with who's
been brought up,
and that soul choosing that
family, that existence, there.
And that's-- he didn't get the
encouragement he needed for his
own soul to go.
Where you live right now,
there are two sitting rooms.
Is that right?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank you.
Because I know that your
family visits you in one
sitting room more
than the other one.
And the one that
they visit you in,
there's photos all
over the place.
That's where they are.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Mm-hm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I want to
talk about your dad fishing.
So I've got to say,
he loves fishing.
>>AUDIENCE: He loved it.
>>VAN PRAAGH: He loved it.
And I know that you have a
photo of him with a fish,
holding a fish.
And I know that you
have that photo.
And I know that there was
one of those photos that
was sitting on that table
that you were looking at.
He was fishing.
You understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank
you very much.
Just evidential, so he knows
that you know that he's there.
I know that you need to
take care of-- go on.
He's talking with Mom.
He's talking a lot.
And his watch.
He's sorry any pain he's caused.
He's sorry.
And that Peggy's over there too.
Someone named Peggy or Margaret
on the other side as well.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank
you very much.
Wants to say hello to you.
And what else.
What else was-- her eyes.
Oh.
So your eyes.
You either had to
have them looked
at recently, but
something with the eyes.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes.
So they're just
telling me that here.
So all of these
things relayed to,
they're looking after
you from the other side.
Your father's being
the father he can now
he couldn't be on the earth.
So he wants to thank
you for everything.
He's sorry to cause
pain, but he's also
thanking you for
being his daughter.
I'll leave you with that.
God bless you.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: It seems
that we mostly worked here
and you guys, I
don't know, were just
setting the space
and the energy.
But I thank you all very much.
And I want to thank you
for being here today,
and everybody watching.
And [SIGH] religion is
really that belief system.
And the religion that
I think all of us
would love to have is love.
So use that religion wisely, and
change the energy of everyone
you meet with that
religion, love.
Thank you all very much.
Until next time, go in peace.
Bye-bye.
[MUSIC PLAYING]